here's a differential fluid change for
this is a 13.0 Ranger with a 7.5
rear-end it's not limited slip it's the
open differential with 373 gears first
thing you do is soak everything with pet
PV blaster or liquid ranch something
like that and then right there there's a
left rear tire look in you can see the
fill hole standard 3/8 wrench to stick
the wrench right in the hole no need for
a socket make sure you can take that off
view glass will help a lot with that and
always safety first use a jack jack
stand all that good stuff here's a
differential soaked everything with PB
Blaster as you can see this is actually
the second time I soaked it because I
don't like stripped bolts you know pail
underneath or a bucket or a pan or
something to catch all the extra few
blaster and the differential fluid
there's your tag your axle tag that will
tell you what kind of differential you
have and whether or not you need to add
limited-slip additive which is actually
like a friction modifier it has all the
codes on it so I'm pretty sure these 1/2
inch bolts we're going to take all those
off and take differential I'll see what
the fluid looks like this truck has just
over 80,000 miles on it and it's never
been changed so I'd imagine it's going
to be pretty nasty but move all those
bolts out of the top one in just so that
the differential cover doesn't fall in
the bucket and you want to lightly tap a
screwdriver on the differential then pry
it open
get all the fluid out then take that top
bolt out and then I'll show you what we
do bet you up peel off all the old RTV
and clean up the edge all the way around
I'm needs brake cleaner to clean all the
old gear oil out of it if there's one
good thing for these china-made
screwdrivers its scraping these gaskets
off that's for sure next you want to put
a RTV all the way around the inside of
the bolts
on the differential cover you're going
to use black RTV smear it in with your
finger and then reinstall the
differential it's April 13th here in
southeastern Michigan and it's snowing
those are little bits of melted snow on
the ground all over anywhere back to the
differential got the new differential on
torque down the bolts do a lug nut
pattern and then I'm going to fill it up
put the plug back in take it for test
drive see how it works